@[in unison] We're home.
@Welcome back you two.
@Did you have fun
on yourúbig trip?
@Yup.ú[Tomoya] I had a good time
but@I'm still waiting on my
dateúwith you.
@Huh?ú[Tomoya] It's not fair
to@promise a guy a date then
notúshow up.
@Such a shame. I wasúreally
looking forward to our@little
vacation together.
@Hey asshole you better
stopúhitting on my wife.
@Akki!
@Of course, you're coming on
ourúdate too, Ushio.
Right?@[Ushio] Yup!
@Alright, then you
can countúme in too!
@Perfect! The three of us
willúhave a great time.
@Right, Tomoya? Ushio?ú[Akio]
Don't leave me out! I@want to
play too!
@Nagisa...
@[Sanae] Hey Tomoya...
@It hasn't changed at all, huh?
@We've hardly touched thisúroom
since she married you and@moved
out all those years ago.
@Yeah... It's almost
like goingúback in time.
@Oh would you like to take
thoseúwith you?@[Tomoya] Huh?
@[Sanae] The stuffed dangos
Iúmean. Ushio loves them.
@I've really imposed on
you.úPlease forgive me.@[Sanae]
Huh?
@Sorry for forcing Ushio
onúyou all this time.
@But I think this little
vacationúyou sent me on taught
me a lot.@I mean about being a
father.
There's nothing to be sorry
about. We didn't do anything
special.
Don't say that. You raised
Ushio to be a good girl.
I don't know how to thank you.
[Akio] Okay, next impression
is Egawa! Go!
[Ushio] Egawa!
I hope I can do half as good
as you've done raising her.
I'll try my best to do it on my
own. To teach her to be strong
and kind like her mother.
This really brings back
memories. Akio and I quit our
jobs and
opened this bakery for Nagisa
when she was the same age as
Ushio is now.
So good luck.
I know you can do it.
@I promise I'll repay
yourúkindness anyway I can.
@It's fine. As long as
you'reúhappy that'll be payment
enough.
@Thank you. I'll try to
makeúUshio happy too.
@Good.
@Hey Daddy!
@Hey Ushio. What's up?
@Akki says he wants
toúplay baseball with you.
@Huh?
@You can do it!
@Give it your best
out thereúyou two!
@Finally decided to wake upúhuh?
Welcome back to the world@of the
living, kid.
@Just shut up and
pitch the ball.
@Ushio! I'll show you what
aúloser your daddy is...
@so you can tease him about
itúfor the rest of your life.
@Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey!
@So who do you think is going
toúwin the match, Ushio?
@Akki!
@Give me a break!
@She's been watching my
powerfulúpitches her entire
life.
@Fine! Then I'm going
to showúher a homerun!
@We'll see.
@[ping]
@Huh? I'll be damned!
@You see that, Ushio?
@Yup!ú[glass shatter]
@That's okay. Nothing a
littleúapology can't fix,
right?@[Ushio] Daddy! Daddy!
Daddy!
[Akio] I couldn't cry, Sanae...
You know that.
[Akio] 'Cause you haven't shed a
tear since that day yourself.
[Sanae] You know me pretty
well, don't you?
[Akio] You bet I do. Who the
Hell do you think you're talking
to?
I had an important job to do.
Icouldn't cry. I had to raise
Ushio in a way that would make
Nagisa proud.
But I'm grateful I had that.
Because I had her here, I never
lost sight of myself.
Five years, huh? Got to admit
that little girl helped us
through some pretty tough times,
didn't she?
[Sanae] Yeah, she really did.
[Akio] But that's all over now.
It's okay.
[Sanae] You're right.
[Akio] You worked hard all
these years.
[Sanae] It was nothing. We're
family, after all.
[Akio] It's alright. Let it go.
[Akio] You did a fine job. It's
your turn to cry now. [Sanae]
Akio...
When it feels like there's
nothing you can do, I'll be
there to help you.
I'll stay by your side until
you don't need to cry anymore.
[Akio] So it's okay now.
Let it go.
[sobbing]
All right, see you later.
Away we go!
Take care you two.
Yeah! Go get 'em, Ushio!
Okay!
[Tomoya] Who're you going to
go get?
Okay Ushio, from now on, it's
just you and your daddy.
Show him what a good girl
you are. [Ushio] Okay.
I forgot to ask, but I hope
youguys can help me pick her up
and drop her off at kindergarten
if I get held up at my job.
Yeah, just leave it to me!
And the other thing...
Have you thought about that?
It'll be fine.
[Akio] Don't worry. I'll pay
him a visit soon.
Oh yes. I heard about your
situation from Mrs Furukawa.
I'm glad you could finally make
it, Mister Okazaki.
Thank you m'am. I appreciate it.
Okay Ushio, Daddy's got to go
to work now.
Okay. Have a nice day, Daddy.
I will. See you later.
[woman] Look, that guy over
there is Ushio's father...
But if he's here then do you
think something happened with
the Furukawas?
Like a family dispute?
The old me would have
probably lost it by now.
Excuse me, uh, hi! My name's
Tomoya. I'm Ushio Okazaki's
father.
Oh... Hello.
Due to some
extenuatingcircumstances, my
in-laws have been taking care of
my daughter for quite a while.
But things worked out and she'll
be living with me from now on.
Anyway, nice to meet all of you.
Thank you. It's nice to
finally meet you too.
Ushio is friends with my
daughter, so I'm sure we'll see
each other again Mister Okazaki.
Of course. We'll see you
again soon.
I see. So you decided to
live together, huh?
Yeah. I'm sorry for making you
guys worry about me all these
years.
But it must be tough right?
Raising a little kid like that
all by yourself.
Sanae and the Old Man gotthrough
the diapers and the terrible
two's for me, so I should be
fine.
Even if things get tough, I'll
hang in there. It can't be as
bad as what they went through.
Alright well, if you run into
any problems, just let me know.
I'm sure the company, will do
whatever it can to help.
Oh, in that case... There is
something...
Daddy!
Hi Ushio, you ready to go home?
Oh, hello.
We're in the summer sessionright
now, so Ushio's regular teacher
is taking time off. I'm sorry
you can't meet her.
Taking time off? Oh is she sick?
[teacher] Oh no, nothing like
that. Actually she's going to a
childcare seminar.
[teacher] She should be back
next week. I'm sure you'll have
a chance to talk to her then.
All right. Sounds good.
So tell me, what's your
teacher like?
She has real long hair. She's
pretty and she's nice.
Oh yeah?
[Tomoya] All right, Daddy needs
to go back to work now.
If a stranger comes to thedoor,
don't open it no matter what,
okay? [Ushio] Okay.
Now if anything happens, you
just give Sanae a call.
You know the number to the
bakery, don't you?
Uh huh.
Don't worry. I'll be back before
it gets dark.
I'll see you later.
Bye Daddy. See ya.
[doorbell][Tomoya] It's Daddy.
My hands are full. Can you open
the door for me?
[gasp]
I brought a bunch of stuff from
the Furukawas.
I got the Big Dango Family, and
all of your clothes and your
toys too...
First, let's find a place
to put this.
What do you think? Where's a
good spot?
Right here.
Alright then, that works for me.
[Ushio] Daddy, can you cook?
[Tomoya] I'm going to learn to
cook starting today. Let's work
on it together, okay?
[Ushio] Okay.
[Kouko] Okazaki!
[Tomoya] Hi Kouko, long
time no see.
I know, it's been years
hasn't it? And who is this?
She's my daughter, Ushio. It's
okay, say hello Ushio.
Hello, lady.
Hi there. Nice to meet you.
I'm Kouko Yoshino.
She looks just like her mother,
doesn't she? It really brings
back memories for me.
I bet she'll grow up to be as
cute and as brave as her mother
too.
And hopefully she'll have just
as many wonderful friends.
I sure hope so. I want to give
her the best I can.
She used to be Mommy's
teacher, Ushio.
By the way, Yoshino told me the
news about your little sister.
[Tomoya] She's finally out of
the hospital, huh?
[Tomoya] That must be a
big relief.
Yes, the doctor said it was a
miracle. But we always had faith
that she would wake up some day.
We never gave up hope.
Actually, my sister's with me
right now if you want to meet
her.
Fu-chan!
[Kouko] You don't have to be
shy. Go ahead and introduce
yourself.
So this is your sister, huh?
[screaming]
She's got some sense of humor,
doesn't she?
It's okay. Come back. These two
are my friends. There's no
reason for you to be afraid.
This is my sister, Fuko.
Fu-chan, this is Okazaki and
Ushio.
It's nice to meet you.
Yeah, nice to meet you too.
Nice to meet you.
[Tomoya] What now? [Fuko] She's
so cute! Can Fuko hug her
please, right now?
Why bother asking if you're
going to do it anyway?!
Fu-chan, you can't do that.
It's rude.
Don't be hard on her. She can't
help the way she is.
How old is she by the way?
Believe it or not, she's the
same age as you.
I know she may seem a little
immature but she was asleep for
an awfully long time,
so she still has the mentality
of a high school freshman.
High school? Are you sure
you don't mean kindergarten?
My goodness, you and Okazaki
sure do like to pick on poor
little Fuko!
But I'll show you! I'm going to
make Ushio my little sister!
Fu-chan, stop it. That doesn't
even make any sense.
Then I can sneak her away while
you're both confused?
[in unison] No way.
Alas the day is lost!
I know she may be a little
on the weird side,
but aren't you glad you made a
new friend today? [Ushio]
Uh-huh!
By the way, Daddy's taking a day
off from work tomorrow.
I want to go somewhere
together, okay?
Are we going on a trip?
[Tomoya] No, not exactly.
So you love the Big Dango
Family too, huh?
Uh-huh. Sanae told me that it
smells like Mommy.
I see...
It smells good.
[Tomoya] I'm home. [Radio]
Number seven Bright Tank is the
winner.
Jockey, Hajime Ishige.
[radio] Second place, number
eight Uran Max.
[radio] Third place, number
ten, Upgrade.
[radio] The payoffs are
as follows.
[radio] Number six wins; 260 yen
[radio] Quinella, number
seven, eight...
Oh, it's you. Oh Tomoya.
I'm finally home.
Yeah...
You're looking old, Dad.
[Tomoya] This is your
granddaughter, Ushio.
[father] Oh...
Nice to meet you, grandpa.
Nice to meet you.
Have you been at home all
this time?
[father] Uh-huh.
I went and saw grandma just the
other day.
Oh?
Ushio and I took a trip up
north and I spoke to her then.
Do you remember the place? You
took me there once when I was
little.
Hmm...
Grandma told me all sorts
of things.
About me and you when I
was growing up.
It made me realize how difficult
it must've been for you. It also
brought back a lot of memories.
Listen Dad... You must be
tired, right?
Huh?
Don't you think it's finally
time you took a vacation?
Why don't you go back to
your hometown?
Grandma's waiting for you.
At the place where you took my
hand and decided to raise me on
your own. All those years ago.
[sigh]
You've worked hard enough, Dad.
You've done more than enough for
me.
You can rest now.
You can finally go back home. Go
and spend some time with your
mother, okay?
Are... are you sure? It's
alright now?
Is what alright?
Have I... have I done
everything I need to do, yet?
Listen, you sacrificedeverything
you had to raise me. How can you
even ask me a question like
that?
[Tomoya] You gave up your
wholelife for a worthless son
like me... And in all that time
I never even thought to thank
You've done enough, okay?!
Oh, I see...
My work was already done. And
I never even realized it.
That's wonderful. What a relief.
It's over.
You're all packed. You've got a
change of clothes and I gave you
a little money, just in case.
Thank you. It means a lot.
I'll give Grandma a call soon to
let her know that you're coming.
Just be careful not to lose
your bag along the way.
Okay, I'll be careful.
[Tomoya] Don't worry. I'll take
care of the house.
I'll clear up your debt, too.
Oh. Alright. Thank you.
Ushio, hey. Say goodbye to
Grandpa, okay?
Bye-bye. See you Grandpa.
Bye-bye.
Well, this is it. Thanks again.
You've got to take good care of
yourself, okay?
Yeah...
And don't drink too much.
[father] Tomoya...
Look, I brought some candy.
Don't smoke too much either,
okay? [father] Yeah.
Sorry but Dad has to go back to
work now. Try not to spoil your
dinner.
Live a long life and
healthy life.
I'm sorry I have to leave
you alone so much.
Some day, I'll repay all the
kindness you've shown me.
Now be a good boy. I'll make you
dinner when I come home,
alright?
I'll do whatever it takes, okay?
Then we can eat together.
Right, Tomoya?
Tomoya? What's wrong?
Come on now. Why are you crying?
I'm sorry, Ushio. Don't worry
about me, I'm fine.
[Tomoya] Dad...
Thank you. For everything.
[father] Sure.
Well, goodbye.
Yeah, take care Dad.
Sure, I will. You take care too.
[Tomoya] In all those years,
I wonder if he was happy.
He lost the only woman he
ever loved when his life
should've been perfect...
And then, all
he had was me.
He worked and worked for such
an ungrateful son...
I wonder... I wonder if he
ever found any joy in that.
I'm sorry Dad...
Is something wrong, Ushio?
There's a light...
A light? Is it too bright?
Come here.
[Tomoya] Oh yeah, Ushio,
someone's coming to see you
tomorrow.
Ushio, do you know any games?
Ushio, say goodbye to Mommy.
Hey, Ushio.
It's dangerous. Wait for me!
[Ushio] Daddy. Good luck.